# Models and Data reported in Supplementary Information

## File Types in This Data Repository

* `.txt`: mechanism files
* `.dict`: dictionary files generated by GraTeLPy and used by `gratelpy_check_data` to translate between your mechanism
         file and GraTeLPy's internal naming scheme for species and reaction nodes.
* `.pos`: relative x-, and y-coordinates of the nodes of the bipartite digraph --
        used to draw fragments defined by .dot files
* `.dat`: listings of critical fragments -- some are listed in GraTeLPy's internal naming scheme, some are translated
* `.dot`: dot files that can be used to draw discovered critical fragments
* `.vsg`: pickled Python data structures that hold discovered critical fragments (read with cPickle or pickle)
* `.pdf`: drawings of entire chemical reaction networks as bipartite
  	digraphs, critical fragments, and corresponding subgraphs

## Naming Scheme and Directory Tree Structure

The top-level directories are named after the mechanisms described
in the supplementary data.

Inside each mechanism directory, you will find two or three files 
(depending on the mechanism) and one or multiple subfolders:

* The `.txt` file is of greatest interest: This file defines the
  elementary chemical reactions of the mechanism.
* The `.dict` and `.pos` file only become interesting if you want to use
  `gratelpy_check_data` to re-generate any of the data found in the
  `order_` subfolders.
* The `order_` subfolders hold the data generated by `GraTeLPy` for the
  corresponding mechanism in search of all critical fragments of the
  indicated order.

### The `order_` Directories

Inside each `order_` directory you will find the following files:

* The `.vsg` file that holds all the data generated by `GraTeLPy` for
  this mechanism in search of critical fragments of the indicated order.
  Use Python's `pickle` or, preferably (since faster), `cPickle` to
  inspect this file.
* The `.dat` file listing all critical fragments of the indicated order
  generated by `GraTeLPy` in human-readable format.
  This file is generated by `gratelpy_check_data` operating on the
  corresponding `.vsg` file.
  Each critical fragment is listed together with all subgraphs
  and respective subgraph components (edges and cycles that make up the
  corresponding subgraph).
* **The `.vsg` and `.dat` file should be visible at the top of the
  directory listing**
* Below the `.vsg` and `.dat` file you will find many `.dot` and `.pdf` files.
  The `.dot` files are generated by `gratelpy_check_data` and contain
  instructions for [`dot` or `neato`](http://www.graphviz.org/).
  These instruct `dot`/`neato` how to draw the bipartite digraph of the
  chemical reaction network, `_graph.dot`, critical fragment `frag_`,
  and corresponding subgraphs `frag_..._sg_`.
  The fragment and subgraph numbering used in naming these `.dot` files
  is equivalent to the numbering used in the corresponding `.dat` file.
* The `.pdf` files are the drawings of the critical fragments and subgraphs
  defined by the corresponding `.dot` file.
  These are generated with `$ neato -o -Tpdf -o NAME.pdf NAME.dot`.
  **After clicking on a `.pdf` file you likely need to click on `View Raw`
  in the centre of the page to download and open the drawing**
* **The `.dot` and `.pdf` files that show the entire bipartite graph
  of the chemical reaction network are usually found at the bottom of
  the directory listing -- these are named `..._graph.dot/.pdf`**
